---
title: Text Generation w Markov Chains
date: "July 20 2023"
---

# What are Markov Chains

In simple terms, Markov chains can be understood as a type of graph where nodes are connected by edges. The key difference is that these edges have probabilities assigned to them, sometimes known as "weights." Each node in the graph represents some information, such as a word.

To traverse through the Markov chain, you start from a specific node and use the edge weights to make a random choice for the next node. For instance, if node "A" has two edges: one with a 40% probability leading to node "B," and the other with a 60% probability leading to node "C", when moving from node "A," there's a 40% chance of going to node "B" and a 60% chance of going to node "C." This weighted randomness guides the movement through the chain.

## How can markov chains be used to generate text.

As explained earlier, when the nodes in the graph store word information, you can traverse the graph from a starting node while keeping track of the information in the order of traversal. By combining this information into a string, you can generate a piece of text. The generated text will be random but tends to form a somewhat coherent and meaningful text piece.

Psuedocode for this may look like:

```js
function generateText(startNode, length){
    currentNode = startNode
    text = currentNode.text + " "
    for i in length-1:
        //Choose weighted randomly next node based on the edges' probabilities.
        currentNode = chooseRandomNextNode(currentNode.edges)
        text += curretNode.text += " "
    return text
}
```

## An example text generation with markov chains.

I made a project, which uses Markov Chains and generates text randomly, this can be found at [Markov Chains](https://markov-chains.vercel.app), Github page at: [Github Project Markov Chains](https://github.com/AreOlsen/Markov-Chains-Text-Generation).

Using the bee movie script, I was able to generate this piece of text, which is a bit coherent.
"Bee Movie Script - Dialogue Transcript
Voila! Finally, the funeral?

-   No, you doing?!
-   You got a lot of Hive Harrys.
-   Let's have any corrections, feel free to Drew's Script-O-Rama afterwards - because reading is one day off
    Yowser!
    I could they never have told you, stop flying who knows what.
    Please clear the neck down. That's more I love it!
    Oouple of magic.
-   Antennae, check.
-   Stinger, check.
    Welcome, New Hive Oity
    graduating class of...
    Ooh, black and yellow!
    Let's shake it goes."
